libs/game/docs/reference/sprites/create.md, before:

# create

Create a new sprite from a pixel image.

```sig
sprites.create(null)
```
Sprites provide all the operations to move and animate images. Your sprites can detect collisions and overlaps with other objects. Initially, sprites have a position in the middle of screen and have no motion. You set the location and movement of a sprite in your code.

## Parameters

* **img**: an [image](/types/image) to create a sprite for.

## Returns

* a game [sprite](/types/sprite) attached to the image.


## Examples #example

### Smiley face #ex1

Make a sprite for a smiley face image and display it on the screen.

```blocks
let smiley: Sprite = null
smiley = sprites.create(img`
. . . . . f f f f f f f . . . . 
. . . f f e e e e e e e f . . . 
. . f e e e e e e e e e e f . . 
. f e e e e e e e e e e e e f . 
f e e e e f f e e e f f e e e f 
f e e e e f f e e e f f e e e f 
f e e e e e e e e e e e e e e f 
f e e e e e e e e e e e e e e f 
f e e e e e e e f e e e e e e f 
f e e e e e e e e e e e e e e f 
f e e e e f e e e e e f e e e f 
f e e e e e f f f f f e e e e f 
. f e e e e e e e e e e e e f . 
. . f e e e e e e e e e e f . . 
. . . f f e e e e e e e f . . . 
. . . . . f f f f f f f . . . . 
`)
```

### Drive the car #ex2

Set the scene background color and make a sprite with a car image. Set the car in motion toward the right of the screen.

```blocks
let theCar: Sprite = null
scene.setBackgroundColor(3)
theCar = sprites.create(img`
. . . . . f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . f d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d f . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . f d d d d f f f f f f d d f f f f f f f . . . . . . . . . 
. . . f d d d d f . . . . f d d f . . . . . f f . . . . . . . . 
. . . f d d d d f . . . . f d d f . . . . . . f . . . . . . . . 
. . f d d d d d f f . . . f d d f . . . f f f d f f f f f . . . 
. f d d d d d d d f f f f f d d f f f f d d d d d d d d f . . . 
. f d d d f f f d d d d d d d d d d d d d d f f f d d d f . . . 
. f d d f f f f f d d d d d d d d d d d d f f f f f d d f . . . 
. f f . f f f f f . f f f f f f f f f f . f f f f f . f f . . . 
. . . . f f f f f . . . . . . . . . . . . f f f f f . . . . . . 
. . . . . f f f . . . . . . . . . . . . . . f f f . . . . . . . 

`)
theCar.vx = 20
game.onUpdate(function () {
    if (theCar.x > scene.screenWidth() + 16) {
        theCar.x = -16
    }
})
```

## #seealso

Commit message:

Sprite create and destroy ref

libs/game/docs/reference/sprites/create.md, after:

# create

Create a new sprite from a pixel image.

```sig
sprites.create(null)
```

Sprites provide all the operations to move and animate images. Your sprites can detect collisions and overlaps with other objects. Initially, sprites have a position in the middle of screen and have no motion. You set the location and movement of a sprite in your code.

## Parameters

* **img**: an [image](/types/image) to create a sprite for.
* **type**: the type of sprite to create - ``player``, ``food``, or ``coin``.

## Returns

* a game [sprite](/types/sprite) attached to the image.


## Examples #example

### Smiley face #ex1

Make a sprite for a smiley face image and display it on the screen.

```blocks
let smiley: Sprite = null
smiley = sprites.create(img`
. . . . . f f f f f f f . . . . 
. . . f f e e e e e e e f . . . 
. . f e e e e e e e e e e f . . 
. f e e e e e e e e e e e e f . 
f e e e e f f e e e f f e e e f 
f e e e e f f e e e f f e e e f 
f e e e e e e e e e e e e e e f 
f e e e e e e e e e e e e e e f 
f e e e e e e e f e e e e e e f 
f e e e e e e e e e e e e e e f 
f e e e e f e e e e e f e e e f 
f e e e e e f f f f f e e e e f 
. f e e e e e e e e e e e e f . 
. . f e e e e e e e e e e f . . 
. . . f f e e e e e e e f . . . 
. . . . . f f f f f f f . . . . 
`)
```

### Drive the car #ex2

Set the scene background color and make a sprite with a car image. Set the car in motion toward the right of the screen.

```blocks
let theCar: Sprite = null
scene.setBackgroundColor(3)
theCar = sprites.create(img`
. . . . . f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . f d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d f . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . f d d d d f f f f f f d d f f f f f f f . . . . . . . . . 
. . . f d d d d f . . . . f d d f . . . . . f f . . . . . . . . 
. . . f d d d d f . . . . f d d f . . . . . . f . . . . . . . . 
. . f d d d d d f f . . . f d d f . . . f f f d f f f f f . . . 
. f d d d d d d d f f f f f d d f f f f d d d d d d d d f . . . 
. f d d d f f f d d d d d d d d d d d d d d f f f d d d f . . . 
. f d d f f f f f d d d d d d d d d d d d f f f f f d d f . . . 
. f f . f f f f f . f f f f f f f f f f . f f f f f . f f . . . 
. . . . f f f f f . . . . . . . . . . . . f f f f f . . . . . . 
. . . . . f f f . . . . . . . . . . . . . . f f f . . . . . . . 

`)
theCar.vx = 20
game.onUpdate(function () {
    if (theCar.x > scene.screenWidth() + 16) {
        theCar.x = -16
    }
})
```

## See also #seealso

[create projectile](/reference/sprites/create-projectile)
